SITCOM-2139: Add text on enhanced SV survey design (#31)
lsst-sitcom/sitcomtn-005: svs.tex

        \item evaluate the overall operational uptime in wide-area survey mode observations similar to the nominal LSST cadence,
        \item and validate the FBS performance and the observing strategy for the SV surveys.
\end{itemize}

The enhanced baseline SV survey design includes three survey components that are interleaved as part of a single FBS configuration:
\begin{itemize}
        \item a \textbf{Deep Survey} that is optimized for testing deep coadds at the equivalent integrated exposure of the LSST 10-year survey and beyond, achieving a rapid temporal sampling in those fields, and validating the observing strategy for the LSST Deep Drilling Fields (DDFs);
        \item a \textbf{Wide Survey} that is optimized for testing template generation and Prompt Processing with difference image analysis at data rates that would be expected during the first year of LSST, thereby providing a sustained full-scale test of the Data Facility;
        \item a \textbf{Template Generation Survey} that is optimized for building wide-area template coverage, including to support target-of-opportunity science cases during the first year of LSST.

> \end{itemize}

Reviewer: How does the third survey differ from the second survey?  Any survey from which templates are generated should also provide science images?

Author: Referring to this as "Expanded Template Generation Survey". Figure shows this is using a different footprint.

The enhanced baseline SV survey adopts many of the design elements of the standard LSST cadence, with modifications to increase the likelihood of delivering a stand-alone high-impact dataset to enhance opportunities for Early Science.

For the SV surveys, a visit consists of a single 30 second exposure for $grizy$ and a single 38 second exposure for $u$.

\textit{Deep Survey}

> The Deep Survey is implemented using a configuration similar to the LSST DDFs, in particular, targeting the four DDFs located in the south Galactic cap that are visible in July-September: ELAIS S1, XMM LSS, ECDFS, and EDFSa + EDFSb.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Deep Survey is implemented using a configuration similar to that of the LSST DDFs, specifically, targeting the four DDFs located in the south Galactic cap that are visible in July-September: ELAIS S1, XMM LSS, ECDFS, and EDFSa + EDFSb.
```

There is approximately $\sim30$~deg$^2$ of overlap with the Euclid Q1 release, and overlap with deep fields recommended by the Roman Observations Time Allocation Committee
% https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.10574

The planned observing cadence for the DDFs during the SV surveys uses a modified form of the ``ocean'' strategy recommended by the SCOC.
The ``ocean'' strategy features more frequent observing epochs to better sample night-to-night time-domain phenomena and provide more distinct epochs for validating the internal calibration during commissioning.
The primary modification for the SV surveys is to increase the number of visits relative to the baseline ``ocean'' strategy in order to accumulate a deeper integrated exposure during the finite time period of the SV surveys.
During the SV surveys, XMM LSS is designated for a ``deep season'', with longer sequences of visits in each epoch, particularly in the $i$ and $z$ bands.
ELAIS S1, ECDFS, and EDFS are designated for ``shallow seasons''.
Visits are split evenly across the EDFS A and B pointings.

\textit{Wide Survey}

> The Wide Survey is implemented using a configuration similar to the LSST Wide-Fast-Deep, but constrained to a region of $\pm10$~deg in ecliptic latitude.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Wide Survey is implemented using a configuration similar to that of the LSST Wide-Fast-Deep, but constrained to a region of $\pm10$~deg in ecliptic latitude.
```

The footprint coincides with the low-dust WFD, Galactic plane, and North Ecliptic Spur from the standard LSST Cadence, with a ratio of visits and band coverage in each region matching that of the standard LSST cadence.
For example, the band coverage in the low-dust WDF and Galactic plane is $ugrizy$, while the north ecliptic spur recieves a smaller total number of visits and limited to the $griz$ bands.

\textit{Template Generation Survey}

The SV surveys are a Rubin Observatory Construction deliverable.
While the primary objective of the SV surveys is to fulfill the Construction Completeness criteria defined in this document, a secondary goal of the SV surveys is to facilitate a smooth transition to operations, and where possible, enhance the impact of the early Science Program.
Multiple science cases would benefit from acquiring wide-area template coverage during the on-sky commissioning period to enhance opportunities for time-domain science during the first year of LSST, including time-limited target-of-opportunity science cases that require contemporaneous observations with other facilities.

> Accordingly, Rubin Observatory is exploring the technical feasibility of such observations as part of the SV surveys on a best-effort basis.

Reviewer: The "\begin{itemize}" list of 3 surveys above give the impression that this "template" survey is decided not "is exploring the technical feasibility of" -- I'd suggest removing it from the list of three above and only discussing the Deep and WFD-like surveys as the key components of the SV Surveys. The in a separate (sub)section, introduce this possible template survey

Reviewer: It will say the same thing, just manage expectations better

During system commissioning, telescope pointings at the end of night prior to dome closure are limited to an azimuth range in the southwest, thus limiting the capability to observe the LSST DDFs and the footprint of the Wide Survey.
During this end-of-night period, the current plans are to take observations to build wide-area template coverage in 2 bands (likely $gi$) in regions located at declinations $[-55, -30]$ and Galactic latitudes $|b| > 15$~deg.

\textit{Caveats}

The enhanced SV survey described here represents a design target based on system specifications.

> Rubin Observatory is still in the commissioning phase, and a central objective of the SV surveys is to directly test and to further optimize the operational efficiency under realistic conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rubin Observatory is still in the commissioning phase; the key objective of the SV surveys is to directly verify the as-built system  and operational efficiency under realistic conditions.
```

Reviewer: (the optimization process will continue well into year 1)
